Sam woke up early to help his mother with breakfast.
Are you feeling in good health today? she asked.
He nodded, though he felt a bit hot.
After breakfast, he said.
I'll pack my bag and go for a run.
It's important to stay fit, not fat.
As he ran, Sam noticed the changing weather.
There was a chance of rain or even hail,
but he thought.
I'll keep going.
He saw a hen in the sand by the path and
a bird in the air, singing a song that
made him feel happy.
Sam stopped by the river, where he saw a
man build a small boat.
I've built many boats like this, the man said.
Sam admired his strength and faith in his craft.
Later, at school, the teacher said.
Think about what makes life worth living.
Is it truth, wealth, or growth?
Sam raised his hand and said.
For me, it's my brother, my father, and
my mother.
They're always there, no matter the month
or the weather.
In class, they read about the Earth's
history and the death and birth of civilizations.
Sam learned how strength and
determination can change the world.
After school, he met his friends and said.
Hey, let's play soccer.
They all agreed.
Who will be the goalkeeper?
Someone asked.
I will, Sam said.
He held his position well, showing his
quick reflexes and strong faith in his team.
That evening, at dinner, Sam's mother asked.
What did you learn today?
He replied.
We learned about the truth of the world
and how important it is to work together
to make it a better place.